Deep Thoughts by Jack Handey

Whenever you read a good book, it’s like the author is right there, in the room talking to you, which is why I don’t like to read good books.

If I ever get real rich, I hope I’m not real mean to poor people, like I am now.

I can picture in my mind a world without war, a world without hate. And I can picture us attacking that world, because they’d never expect it.

It’s easy to sit there and say you’d like to have more money. And I guess that’s what I like about it. It’s easy. Just sitting there, rocking back and forth, wanting that money.

I’m telling you, just attach a big parachute TO THE PLANE ITSELF! Is anyone listening to me?!

To me, boxing is like a ballet, except there’s no music, no choreography and the dancers hit each other.

I believe in making the world safe for our children, but not our children’s children, because I don’t think children should be having sex.

If you ever reach total enlightenment while you’re drinking a beer, I bet it makes beer shoot out your nose.

Sometimes I think you have to march right in and demand your rights, even if you don’t know what your rights are, or who the person is you’re talking to. Then on the way out, slam the door.

Better not take a dog on the space shuttle, because if he sticks his head out when you’re coming home his face might burn up.

If you go to a costume party at your boss’s house, wouldn’t you think a good costume would be to dress up like the boss’s wife? Trust me, it’s not.

What is it about a beautiful sunny afternoon, with the birds singing and the wind rustling through the leaves, that makes you want to get drunk? And after you’re real drunk, maybe go down to the public park and stagger around and ask people for money, and then lay down and go to sleep.

When I found the skull in the woods, the first thing I did was call the police. But then I got curious about it. I picked it up, and started wondering who this person was, and why he had deer horns.

Most of the time it was probably real bad being stuck down in a dungeon. But some days, when there was a bad storm outside, you’d look out your little window and think, ‘Boy, I’m glad I’m not out in that.’

I hope some animal never bores a hole in my head and lays its eggs in my brain, because later you might think you’re having a good idea but it’s just eggs hatching.

For mad scientists who keep brains in jars, here’s a tip: why not add a slice of lemon to each jar, for freshness?

At first I thought, if I were Superman, a perfect secret identity would be ‘Clark Kent, Dentist,’ because you could save money on tooth X-rays. But then I thought, if a patient said, ‘How’s my back tooth?’ and you just looked at it with your X-ray vision and said, ‘Oh it’s okay,’ then the patient would probably say, ‘Aren’t you going to take an X-ray, stupid?’ and you’d say, ‘Aw fuck you, get outta here,’ and then he probably wouldn’t even pay his bill.

As the light changed from red to green to yellow and back to red again, I sat there thinking about life. Was it nothing more than a bunch of honking and yelling? Sometimes it seemed that way.

During the Middle Ages, probably one of the biggest mistakes was not putting on your armor because you were “just going down to the corner.”

Here’s a good thing to do if you go to a party and you don’t know anybody: first take out the garbage. Then go around and collect any extra garbage that people might have, like a crumpled napkin, and take that out too. Pretty soon people will want to meet the busy garbage guy.

As we were driving, we saw a sign that said ‘Watch for Rocks.’ Marta said it should read ‘Watch for Pretty Rocks.’ I told her she should write in her suggestion to the highway department, but she started saying it was a joke — just to get out of writing a simple letter! And I thought I was lazy!

Ambition is like a frog sitting on a venus flytrap. The flytrap can bite and bite, but it won’t bother the frog because it only has little tiny plant teeth. But some other stuff could happen and it could be like ambition.

After I die, wherever my spirit goes, I’m going to try to get back and visit my skeleton at least once a year, because, ‘Hey, old buddy, how’s it going?’

There should be a detective show called Johnny Monkey, because every week you could have a bad guy say, ‘I ain’t gonna get caught by no MONKEY,’ but then he would, and I don’t think I’d ever get tired of that.

One good thing about Hell, at least, is you can probably pee wherever you want to.

Too bad you can’t just grab a tree by the very tip-top and bend it clear over to the ground and then let it go, because I bet you’d be amazed at all the stuff that comes flying out.

If you go through a lot of hammers each month, I don’t think it necessarily means you’re a hard worker. It may just mean that you have a lot to learn about proper hammer maintenance.

I think someone should have had the decency to tell me the luncheon was free. To make someone run out with potato salad in his hand, pretending he’s throwing up, is not what I call hospitality.

The wise man can pick up a grain of sand and envision a whole universe. But the stupid man will just lie down on some seaweed and roll around until he’s completely draped in it. Then he’ll stand up and say, ‘Hey, I’m Vine Man!’

If you define cowardice as running away at the first sign of danger, screaming and tripping and begging for mercy, then yes, Mister Brave Man, I guess I am a coward.

If you’re a young Mafia gangster out on your first date, I bet it’s real embarrassing if someone tries to kill you.

Today I accidentally stepped on a snail on the sidewalk in front of our house. And I thought, I too am like that snail. I build a defensive wall around myself, a ‘shell’ if you will. But my shell isn’t made out of a hard, protective substance. Mine is made out of tinfoil and paper bags.

I think that a hat that has a cannon that comes out, fires, and then goes back in is at least a decade away.

Once when I was in Hawaii, on the island of Kauai, I met a mysterious old stranger. He said he was about to die and wanted to tell someone about the treasure. I said, ‘Okay, as long as it’s not a long story. Some of us have a plane to catch, you know.’ He started telling his story, about the treasure and his life and all, and I thought, ‘This story isn’t too long.’ But then, he kept going, and I started thinking, ‘Uh-oh, this story is getting long.’ But then the story was over, and I said to myself, ‘You know, that story wasn’t too long after all.’ I forget what the story was about, but there was a good movie on the plane. It was a little long, though.

Sometimes when I reflect back on all the wine I drink, I feel shame! Then I look into the glass and think about the workers in the vineyards and all of their hopes and dreams. If I didn’t drink this wine, they might be out of work, and their dreams would be shattered. Then I say to myself, ‘It is better that I drink this wine and let their dreams come true than be selfish and worry about my liver.’

To me, clowns aren’t funny. In fact, they’re kind of scary. I’ve wondered where this started, and I think it goes back to the time I went to the circus and a clown killed my dad.

I bet the main reason the police keep people away from a plane crash is they don’t want anybody walking in and lying down in the crash stuff, then, when somebody comes up, act like they just woke up and go, ‘What was THAT?!’

When the chairman introduced the guest speaker as a former illegal alien, I got up from my chair and yelled, ‘What’s the matter, no jobs on Mars?’ When no one laughed, I was real embarrassed. I don’t think people should make you feel that way.

Instead of a trap door, what about a trap window? The guy looks out it, and if he leans too far, he falls out. Wait. I guess that’s like a regular window.

Sometimes you have to be careful when selecting a new name for yourself. For instance, let’s say you have chosen the nickname ‘Fly Head.’ Normally you would think that ‘Fly Head’ would mean a person who has beautiful swept-back features, as if flying through the air. But think again. Couldn’t it also mean ‘having a head like a fly’? I’m afraid some people might actually think that.

I think there should be something in science called the ‘reindeer effect.’ I don’t know what it would be, but I think it’d be good to hear someone say, ‘Gentlemen, what we have here is a terrifying example of the reindeer effect.’

If you’re a cowboy and you’re dragging a guy behind your horse, I bet it would really make you mad if you looked back and the guy was reading a magazine.

I guess we were all guilty, in a way. We all shot him, we all skinned him, and we all got a complimentary bumper sticker that said, ‘I helped skin Bob.’

If you go flying back through time and you see somebody else flying forward into the future, it’s probably best to avoid eye contact.

If you ever crawl inside an old hollow log and go to sleep, and while you’re in there some guys come and seal up both ends and then put it on a truck and take it to another city, boy, I don’t know what to tell you.

I wish outer space guys would conquer the Earth and make people their pets, because I’d like to have one of those little beds with my name on it.

If they ever come up with a swashbuckling school, I think one of the courses should be Laughing, Then Jumping Off Something.

I bet when the Neanderthal kids would make a snowman, someone would always end up saying, ‘Don’t forget the thick, heavy brows.’ Then they would all get embarrassed because they remembered they had the big hunky brows too, and they’d get mad and eat the snowman.

One thing kids like is to be tricked. For instance, I was going to take my little nephew to Disneyland, but instead I drove him to an old burned-out warehouse. ‘Oh, no,’ I said. ‘Disneyland burned down.’ He cried and cried, but I think that deep down, he thought it was a pretty good joke. I started to drive over to the real Disneyland, but it was getting pretty late.





